---
title: Personal Statement - Data Science
date: 2021-11-15 14:33:25 +0800
categories: [Home]
tags: [ps]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

My initial interest in computer science came from computer games, which drove me to study the various computer hardware configurations, starting from GPU to CPU, RAM, motherboard, disk, etc. I also learned about NVIDIA, Intel, AMD, and a host of other famous manufacturers. Given the rapid technological innovation in the IT industry, in recent years various manufacturers have introduced their new technologies, such as DLSS of NVIDIA and FSR of AMD. Many of these technologies are optimized way beyond the hardware level. For example, DLSS adopts deep learning techniques extensively. As some of these contents are exactly what I am exposed to during undergraduate courses and research projects, I have become particularly interested in this area, and I would like to explore the questions like how PCIe4.0 can improve hardware performance. After studying the operating system, computer composition principle, computer network and other courses in school and watching videos of Linus Tech Tips on the internet, I treated these components as a whole system, and I gradually become more concerned about how these hardware interacts with I / O to achieve higher performance, which inspires me to delve into the computer science arena further. I’m keen to acquire state-of-the-art IT expertise, understand the emerging software technologies and the latest trend in computer science, improve my capability to solve IT problems in real projects. Thus, I’m inclined to pursue an advanced study in computer science at the postgraduate level.

Immersing in the dense academic atmosphere in Northeastern University, I engaged myself fully in the study of mathematics and statistics, computer network and hardware, software engineering and programming, artificial intelligence, and so forth. With diligence, I have acquired a solid understanding of the computer working principles and software development process, learned how to create programs to handle practical problems, and improved algorithm analysis and design skills. Moreover, I excel in programming and data analysis particularly. More specifically, I am proficient in using Java and Python for programming, designing programs with load balancer implemented in the form of microservice by SpringCloud+Vue, and analyzing data in Spyder with NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn. Additionally, I have a keen interest in artificial intelligence and mastered the preliminary expertise on machine learning and neural network, such as Perceptron, Adaline (Adaptive linear neuron), Hopfield neural network, etc.

Given the efforts paid on curricular studies persistently, I have been keeping a distinctive academic record, a weighted average grade of 89/100, which has brought me the precious chance to get the postgraduate recommendation, win scholarships, together with the priority to participate into several research projects. Since sophomore year, I have begun to cultivate my research proficiency and practical skills in research projects both in and out of university. Among them, the one relevant to machine learning left a lasting impression on me.

In the experiment section of the *Correlated Differential Privacy of Multiparty Data Release in Machine Learning* project, I was mainly responsible for the algorithms part. By conducting the experiments of the 2 private multi-party algorithms for feature selection and utility optimization respectively, I made endeavors to achieve a balance between data utility and privacy protection, and improve the training accuracy step by step. When making assessments of each candidate feature set, according to my 2 utility functions based on information gain and correlated sensitivity, using the exponential mechanism of differential privacy, I tested the influences of different features on training accuracy carefully and adjusted the original scheme accordingly. For instance, I found out the feature ‘final weight’ could have a bad effect on training accuracy to a great extent whether it exists or not, and after discretizing the feature into 5 dimensions, I finally controlled the MAE (Mean Absolute Error) within the theoretical range. From an experience like this, I improved my ability to adjust data processing methods according to the characteristics of specific datasets to achieve optimal results.

Apart from this, I enhanced my debugging ability and communication skills in teamwork, and I realized the significance of cooperation among team members especially in the course of errors checking. As far as I remembered, due to the lack of communication between me and a member, I presumed the data given by the team member was unprocessed and re-preprocessed it, which led to an unreasonable calculation result in the record sensitivity of correlation coefficient. Throughout the research, I felt my passion for data processing and quantitative analysis even more from the sophisticated computing, programming, and analyzing process, and I obtained a sense of fulfillment from it. All of these make me clearer about my goal and encourage me to dedicate myself to such a goal ceaselessly.

On top of the above, my internship experience at Jingdong Technology Holding Co., Ltd is a giant step towards my target. Working at the R & D Department of the Fin-Tech Platform Division as a Software Engineer in Test for 2 months, due to a temporary staff shortage I engaged in front-end development tasks intensively. I mainly participated into 2 projects, Pass-ATP and the Automatic Test Platform for internal use. In total, I completed the development of 19 pages plus 33 interfaces and realized 26 main functions. From this internship, the most essential thing I learned was how to achieve maximum efficiency and effectiveness by team operation management in real development projects. For instance, in Paas-demo project, an HTTP 400 error was reported caused by CORS policy during integration testing. Although front-end developers could solve it temporarily, the better solution actually would be using a filter at the back-end. Meanwhile, instead of merely completing the required task, I was able to summarize what I have acquired into my original thinking and put forward innovative thinking. In my view, defective interface coordination can result in a waste of development time, as the late notifications of modifications and interface document update indeed happen a lot. On the other hand, I also recognized the vital role of the configuration files for decoupling and follow-up development. From the proactive participation in the internship, the communications with the staff, and the continuous self-reflection, I refreshed my existing front-end development expertise such as JavaScript ES6 syntax, DOM rendering and response, Vue life cycle, browser cache, etc., and learned some Linux commands and protocols for deployment.

I believe now it’s time for me to embark on my journey to take brand-new challenges and pursue the targets at the next level. Rather than accepting the postgraduate recommendation offer of our university and some other renowned institutions, I aspire to experience different learning styles and cultures in a preeminent institution, which allows me to communicate with peers, faculty staff, alumni, and industry experts frequently to embrace more opportunities. your respectful institution is my ideal choice, as in addition to its global leading teaching faculty and reputation in research quality. 

The highly specialized PhD. Programme shows a perfect trade-off between theoretical knowledge and practical skills. Through the study, I’m sure I will strengthen my quantitative and statistical analysis skills and further hone my programming capability to explore the latest new technologies in data science and their practical implications in real-life cases. 

Upon completing my prospective study, within 4 years, I plan to involve myself in data science relevant research works in Singapore, where I will consolidate my research level and keep up with the latest data science industry development. In the long run, I will strive to become a big data scientist and technical elite in the industry. I’m strongly convinced that your institution can be the best starting point for me to achieve my professional goals, and I sincerely wish I could join your respectful institution.